Linux Commands And assignments.


1. Usage of pipes and redirection operators- |, >, >>, <
	A.  A pipe is a form of redirection (transfer standard output to other destinations).
	B.  If we want to connect stdout to stdin of another command. We can make this using the pipe character ‘|’. It is used to combine one or more commands. The output of the first command is to act as an input of the second command.
	E.g- Command_1 | Command_2 | ............ | Command_n
            Performed Commands:
	1.     ls -l | more
	The above command is equivalent to the following command.
	2.     ls -l > temp
	3.     more < temp

2. Execute command in superuser mode – sudo
e.g. - sudo apt-get install ........

3. Job Management. Run commands in the background and even after the user logged out. (Nohup, &, fg, bg, ctrl-z)
Performed Commands-
 A. jobs – It Lists all the jobs that are running or suspended
 B. fg – It is used to bring the job to the foreground.
 C. bf- It is used to send the job to the background.
 D. stop or ctrl+z – This command suspends the jobs.
 E. kill or ctrl+c – This command terminates the job.
 F. nohup- It prevents the processes or jobs from receiving the SIGHUP (Signal Hang UP) signal.

4. Executing commands on the output of another command(xargs)
It is used to build and execute commands from standard input. It converts input from standard input into an argument to a command.

5. Search Files(find)
This command is used to search the files from directories.

6.List contents of a directory including hidden files. (ls)
This command shows all the files including hidden files from the specified directory.

7. Delete files and directories(rm, rmdir)
rm command is used to delete one file and rmdir command is used to delete the directory.

8.Create/copy files and Create Directories(cp, mkdir, touch)
    A. touch: It creates a new file or update its timestamp. By using this command we can create at a  time multiple files.
         e.g. touch file1 file2
    B. cp: It is used to copy the files. 
         Syntax: cp [option]source destination
          e.g. cp file1 file2
          Here, copies the contents from file1 to file2 and contents of file1 is retained.
    C. mkdir: It is used to create the directory.
         Syntax: mkdir [option] directory. 

9. Move files and Directories(mv)
     Syntax: mv [option] source destination.

10. Search files for strings/words(grep,egrep,fgrep)
      A. grep: The grep filter searches a file for a particular pattern of characters and display all lines  
           that contain that pattern
           Syntax: grep [option] pattern [files]
      B. egrep- This command is exactly the same as grep -E.
      C. fgrep- The fgrep filter is used to search for the fixed character strings in a file. There can be multiple files also to be searched.

11. Report disk and file system usage(du, df)
      A. du- It can be used to track the files and directories which are consuming an excessive amount of space in hard drive.
      B. df- It can be used to show the free space on the Linux computer.

12. Change file/directory permissions(chmod)
      chmod: This command is used to give permissions to files or directories using r,w and x.

13. Change file/directory ownership(chown, chgrp)
      A. chown-  syntax: chown [options] :new_group object(s)
      B. chgrp- syntax: chgrp[options] groupfile

14. To create hard and soft link (ln)
       ln is used to create hard and soft links between directories or files.

15. Create compressed Packages(tar,gzip,gzunip)
       This commands are used to create compressed files.

16. Create and extract rpm packages(rpm)
       rpm means Red Hat package manager. When we create the rpm pckages or files that package or file refers to .rpm.

17. Split files into multiple chunks(split)
      It is used to break the file in multiple chunks.

18. Output the first n or last n of a file(head, tail)
      These commands are used to display the contents which head command print lines from beginning and tail command prints lines from the end of the file.

19. wc command is used to count characters, strings, and lines from files.

20. cut command is used to cut the sections from the lines of the file.

21. more, less these two commands are used to paginate the content of a file.
      Pagination is the process of separating print or digital content into discrete pages. Pagination refers to the automated process of adding consecutive numbers to identify the sequential order of pages.

22. diff command used to find out the diff between two files. 

23. uniq command is used to remove the duplicate lines from specified folder.

24.sort command is used to sort the lines from specified files.

25. cat command is used concatenate two or more files.

26. Mount and unmount command:
A. The mount command mounts a storage device or filesystem, making it accessible and attaching it to an existing directory structure. 
B. The umount command "unmounts" a mounted filesystem, informing the system to complete any pending read or write operations, and safely detaching it.

27. free command is used to find the system memory information.

28. top, vmstat and iostat commands are used to display current usage of the system.

29. ps command is used to display all running processes in the system.

30. kill command is used to stop any running process.

31. netstat command is used to print network info- connections, listeners etc.

32. ping command is used to check connectivity of remote system.

33. iptable command is used to manage and configure firewalls.

34. service and sysctl commands are used to manage and run system init script.

35. uname and hostname commands are used to display system information.
